# My Path to Programming

## Background
I have always had a fascination with technology, especially programming. Like many I found the initial barrier extremely hard to break. It wasn't until 2016, when I started my studies at Nelson Marlborough Institute of Technology, that I began my journey as a programmer (more specifically a data scientist). Over the past 3 years I have learned Python, Golang, C++, Rust, C#, MySQL, HTML/CSS, Markdown, and much more. I have also learned technologies such as the Cloud(Azure, AWS, GCP), Docker, Git, Linux, and more.

## The Catch
Everyone learns differently, and I cannot guarantee that you will learn from my projects alone. These projects are how I learned different aspects of programming and what I use for future projects. Take the hw_flask_website.py file for example. In my second year WEB601 class we were to build a website for the final assessment using the LAMP stack. I never liked PHP, so I decided to learn the web development framework in Python called Flask. That hw_flask_website.py was the first example of a minimal Flask application that I made, and was the basis for my assessment site [linue](https://github.com/OGLinuk/linue). Use whatever resources that best suits your learning style and embrace failure (failure will happen a lot). Problem solving and failure are probably the two most important things that every IT professional faces. It is from failures that we learn new things, and we overcome difficulties by exercising our problem solving skills.

## The Reward
The IT industry is booming right now, and is only continuing to grow exponentially. Two of the largest things in the IT industry that make it worth while to me is the fact that you can go anywhere in the world with it and its forever changing, so you aren't stuck doing the same exact thing for the rest of your working career. Whether those two things appeal to you or not, IT is everywhere and will eventually replace a LOT of things. I predict that 50% of jobs will be replaced by some form of automation within the next 5-10 years and eventually 90% will succumb to the wave of change. When that happens you want to be the person riding the tsunami, not getting drowned by it.
